---
layout: post
title: 🚀 GlanceCam 2.0 - the multi-cameras edition
description:
image:
tags: glancecam
---

About a month ago, I [shared the plan]({{ site.baseurl }}/2018/04/07/glancecam_1_3_and_the_road_ahead.html) for the future of [GlanceCam]({{ site.baseurl }}/glancecam.html), my macOS app that lets you keep an eye on a webcam and optionally perform custom actions via HTTP(s) requests. 

The most significant step towards that future is here today: GlanceCam 2.0, [available today on the Mac App Store](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/glancecam-ip-webcam-viewer/id1360797896?l=it&ls=1&mt=12) as a free update for existing Users (and still very low priced for new Customers at only $ 2.99), introduces multi-cameras and multi-actions support!

I'm very excited for this feature-rich release:

You can now add as many webcams as you like (Settings > Add camera).
The amount of actions you can perform for every camera is doubled: you can add up to 2 buttons with separate custom actions to every webcam.
You can view one webcam at a time and switch between them with a popup button, by pressing the number keys (1, 2, etc...), and by selecting the camera name from the Dock icon or the Glance menu.
From the menu bar and the Dock icon, you are also able to invoke actions for a camera that's currently not displayed.
On top of that, a few bugs have been squashed.
I'm trying to make GlanceCam the best IP camera viewer possible, and Users' support helps a lot; if you can, please tell your techie friends [download it](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/glancecam-ip-webcam-viewer/id1360797896?l=it&ls=1&mt=12), and if you're already a User, show your love with a review on the App Store or by leaving a nice tip inside GlanceCam's Settings (also new in version 2.0! 🤑). Thank you!

P.S. On a personal note, GlanceCam is now my most important app and, as it deserves, it is now displayed on the home page... I'm very happy to see a new product grow, but also a little sad for the apparent "demotion" of [Tasktic]({{ site.baseurl }}/tasktic.html), my first complex and somewhat successful iOS app. I still love all my children equally, though! 😉